Hey everyone, and thanks for jumping
back into the cryptoverse.
Today, we're going to talk about Bitcoin
market cycles. If you guys like the
content, make sure you subscribe to the
channel, give the video a thumbs up, and
also check out the sale on
IntoTheCryptoverse Premium at
intothecryptoverse.com.
We also, as always, have the first ITC
conference coming up in November, so
make sure you guys check that out. I
also wanted to let you know that we just
published the July Bitcoin cycle memo.
So, if you're interested in reading it,
um you can go to the website and you can
read the most recent report. And I would
also encourage you to read the other
reports, because this one kind of builds
off of those, but I think this could be
something that
uh could be a nice little bit of light
reading before bed if you're interested
in how these market how the how the
different charts all tie together and
what we should be looking for over the
next few months. Right now, for Bitcoin,
I mean, it's currently trading around
$64,000,
and I just want to go through some of
the cycle discussion. All right? So,
look at the there's three main charts we
can look at.
So, the first one is the ROI from the
low, okay? Now, we normally just look at
the last two and then the current one,
and you can see how they basically all
topped out out of at around the same
time.
And so, the argument is like, well, if
they top out around the same time, maybe
they'll bottom out at around the same
time. Now, currently, Bitcoin on the
current cycle is on day 1333.
Last cycle bottomed on 1436. Cycle
before that bottomed 1432. So, about 100
days out, historically speaking.
That's
one of the charts to look at.
Now, if you look at the ROI after the
cycle peak
and measure that out to the low, we're
currently on day 283.
Now, the last three bear markets ended
the last post you know, sort of the ones
that ended at the end of the post having
year, 364 days, 377 days, and 406 days.
And remember, we're currently on day
283.
So, it kind of gives you an idea of
where we are with respect um
to to that last one. And if you go peak
to peak, I mean, you can kind of see
exactly how this is is playing out and
and what it would normally do from here.
In fact, there's another really
interesting chart you can look at to
help better visualize Bitcoin cycles,
and that's actually look at it through
the through the lens of the presidential
cycle. The the election cycle. If you
look at the return of Bitcoin
under
Trump's second term, it is actually
pretty closely following
Biden's term.
Like, this is exactly where we were,
right? We we fell into the summer, we
got a little bit of a rally, we gave it
back in August, September, bottom was in
Q4. So, that's another way that this is
sort of all aligning. It all looks very
very similar. And it's not just Bitcoin,
right? If you look at at Trump's second
term
and you compare it to his first term,
Bitcoin looks very different, but
there's a lot of other things that
don't. For instance,
if you were to look at the dollar, the
Dixie, the XY, you'll see that the Dixie
has basically performed the same under
Trump's second term as his first term.
And it's the dollar arguably going
higher later this year, which could
continue to be a headwind
um
for Bitcoin. Now, the other way to look
at the at the cycle is to look at those
midterm year bear markets and and just
kind of get an idea of of where Bitcoin
is. And you know, if you look at at 2026
and you look at 2022, 2018, and 2014,
we're kind of in the middle. Like, what
we're doing right now is not that
dissimilar from what we've done
previously. And when you average out
prior midterm years, and then overlay
one standard deviation to that average,
often times Bitcoin is finding some
relief
in July. So, I mean, everything a lot of
what we're seeing is just very similar
to what we've seen before. And despite
mental gymnastics being preferred by a
lot of people to explain why this time
is different, it actually just continues
to be the same. The low in February, the
higher low in late March, early April,
the lower low in June, the the lower the
lower high in May.
The lower low was in June, sort of early
July. It's all the same thing. It all
just keeps kind of playing out the same
way as prior cycles. If you're new here,
what I'm talking about is how we had the
February low, and then a sweep of the
February low in in the summer, kind of
the same thing that happened in 2018. Um
also formed a low in June of 20 22. We
had these July rallies every single
time.
And you can see that's kind of where we
currently are, and then we gave those
rallies we gave those gains back come
August or September. The other thing to
look at is to compare it to the 2019
move, and I think that's relevant as
well. But, the window at which Bitcoin
faced price based capitulation in terms
of time back then has already kind of
come and gone, and that would have been
in June. That didn't happen, right? We
didn't get a price based capitulation,
which was not the base case anyways. The
base case has been time based
capitulation. If you get a price based
capitulation like 29 like 2020, which is
not the base case right now, then you
might I think it would make more sense
to pivot the timing of a potential low.
At the end of the day, DCA'ing is
probably going to be your best bet
rather than trying to try trying to time
the bottom. But, you can see that
through the lens of these market cycles,
while it feels different, it's actually
not that different. And a lot of the
different charts kind of show that
what's happening right now is very
similar to what's happened in prior
market cycles. So,
think about that. The main difference is
that there just wasn't a rotation in
altcoins, but also there wasn't in 2019
either. The main difference between now
and 2019 is that this cycle, the the top
near the end of QT occurred. It was the
four-year cycle top back then. We still
had plenty of time within the four-year
cycle to eventually go higher. So, I
think that's the reason why it feels
different. But, if you look at like
social interest right now,
social risk is about about 0.25.
This is actually where it was in 2018 in
July. You can see it was around 0.25 in
2018 as well. So, you could argue that
this is actually more like 2018 than in
2022. Cuz in 2022 in July, social
interest was about double what it is
right now, right? It was about 0.5 risk
rather than about 0.25. You can also
visualize that a little bit better by
looking at YouTube views to various
Bitcoin or crypto YouTube channels and
seeing that right now they're averaging
around 350,000 views a day, whereas in
July of 2022, you know, they were
well, you know, over a million.
Or around a million. Or around a million
views a day. So,
more similar to 2018 in terms of social
interest and in terms of market
structure, more similar to 2019 in terms
of like liquidity and and where we are
in in the business cycle. But, that'll
wrap it up for this video. I hope you
guys enjoyed it. Make sure you
subscribe. Give the video a thumbs up.
Again, check out the sale on ITC
premium. And remember to go download uh
this memo if you're if you're interested
in reading about it. We we go through a
lot of different charts in the memo, and
I think it'll help I I think it can
really help kind of tie this this
massive puzzle
um all together. So, I look forward to
seeing you guys at the conference in
November, and I'll see you next time.
Bye.